With big datasets, of course, it becomes necessary to think about optimization
    Both time (computational) and space (storage)

One way to optimize queries run on a given table is to index keys and other important columns.
CREATE INDEX "title_index" ON "movies" ("title");
-- to remove: DROP INDEX "title_index";

.schema will also show indexes

EXPLAIN QUERY PLAN is the SQLite command to see computational requirements for a query - put it before the query
The index will improve performance for relevant queries by preventing a full table scan.
.timer on
    is a command in SQLite to track speed

SQLite and most other DBMS will automatically index primary keys.
You don't index everything always because indexing has its own costs
    You'd notice these costs especially when you're inserting to or updating the table
    That reminds me of having to update indexes too...

Optimization example:
SELECT "title" FROM "movies"
WHERE "id" IN (
    SELECT "movie_id" FROM "stars"
    WHERE "person_id" = (
        SELECT "id" FROM "people"
        WHERE "name" = 'Tom Hanks'
    )
);

--relevant indexes
CREATE INDEX "person_index" ON "stars" ("person_id");
CREATE INDEX "name_index" ON "people" ("name");

The index on people uses a COVERING INDEX which essentially puts the answer into the actual index.
You can make a separate index to do the same thing for stars:
DROP INDEX "person_index";
CREATE INDEX "person_index" ON "stars" ("person_id", "movie_id");

I'll skip the section on what an index actually is... I've worked with them I know.
But the problem is the index is a physical thing you have to store 
and you gotta traverse it anytime you add data to a table.

You can also make partial indexes:
CREATE INDEX "recents" ON "movies" ("titles")
WHERE "year" = 2023;

^ this could be one way to fix the updating problem if you have users that just need to look at old data

Terminal (unix) command to see size of database:
du -b movies.db

Dropping data (including indexes) doesn't actually delete the data so DB space will remain the same.
Until you run the VACUUM command.

Concurrency is the concept of applying multiple queries/interactions simultaneously
Ex: a financial transaction would subtract money from one person and add to another

Transactions have some properties, which can be remembered using the acronym ACID:
    atomicity: can’t be broken down into smaller pieces,
    consistency: should not violate a database constraint,
    isolation: if multiple users access a database, their transactions cannot interfere with each other,
    durability: in case of any failure within the database, all data changed by transactions will remain.

You can create actual transactions in DB to ensure things behave as you want
Example 1:
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
UPDATE "accounts" SET "balance" = "balance" + 10 WHERE "id" = 2;
UPDATE "accounts" SET "balance" = "balance" - 10 WHERE "id" = 1;
COMMIT;

With COMMIT, the updates occur simultaneously
    but you could create inconsistency if one failed and the other didn't.

Example 2:
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
UPDATE "accounts" SET "balance" = "balance" + 10 WHERE "id" = 2;
UPDATE "accounts" SET "balance" = "balance" - 10 WHERE "id" = 1; -- Invokes constraint error
ROLLBACK;

ROLLBACK restores the DB to the state before you did anything.

It looks like this is not automatically handled - these examples were assuming you're doing this manually
They don't talk about it in this course but I guess you would set up error handling
Where if nothing breaks you commit but if something does you rollback. So you don't have to manually rollback.

As well, using transactions prevents race conditions.
These are situations where multiple attempts are made to access the same value at the same time.
There's a risk of causing inconsistencies in the database and hackers can exploit this.
A transaction prevents this by applying a temporary LOCK on the table/database to prevent other changes.

A table could be:
UNLOCKED: this is the default state when no user is accessing the database
SHARED: (for transaction reads) - allows other transactions to read simultaneously from the database
EXCLUSIVE: if a transaction needs to write or update data, 
    it obtains an exclusive lock on the database that 
    does not allow other transactions to occur at the same time (not even a read)

you can actually lock an entire DB with:
BEGIN EXCLUSIVE TRANSACTION;

but that probably isn't the best idea usually.