Writing - how to add, update, and delete data in database

Basic way to add data into table is an INSERT INTO statement:
INSERT INTO "collections" ("title", "accession_number", "acquired") 
VALUES 
('Imaginative landscape', '56.496', NULL),
('Peonies and butterfly', '06.1899', '1906-01-01');

you could do one row per statement or multiple like the above

You could also utilize a subquery:
INSERT INTO "user_logs" ("type", "password")
SELECT 'update', (
    SELECT "password"
    FROM "users"
    WHERE "username" = 'carter'
);

More useful perhaps is the ability to import data directly into the database, such as from a csv file.
Example in SQLite: 
.import --csv --skip 1 mfa.csv collections
The second argument indicates that the first row of the CSV file (the header row) needs to be skipped

If you don't have an id column in the imported data, you would likely want to first import to a temp table.
.import --csv mfa.csv temp
Then if you insert from this temp table the id's will be auto-generated.
INSERT INTO "collections" ("title", "accession_number", "acquired") 
SELECT "title", "accession_number", "acquired" FROM "temp";
DROP TABLE "temp";

While we can change the ordering of values in the INSERT INTO command, 
we usually can’t change the ordering of the column names themselves. 
The order of column names follows the same order used while creating the table.

While trying to insert multiple rows into a table, if even one of them violates a constraint, 
the insertion command will result in an error and none of the rows will be inserted!

Deleting data: you can delete all data in a table simply
DELETE FROM "collections"; -- careful, this deletes everything

or delete matching a specific condition:
DELETE FROM "collections"
WHERE "title" = 'Spring outing' OR "acquired" IS NULL;

Note that any delete impacting a referenced foreign key will cause problems.
By default you would need to delete the impacted rows from the table with foreign key constraint first.
Or you have other options in assigning the constraint:
ON DELETE RESTRICT: This restricts us from deleting IDs when the foreign key constraint is violated.
ON DELETE NO ACTION: This allows the deletion of IDs that are referenced by a foreign key and nothing happens.
ON DELETE SET NULL: This allows the deletion of IDs that are referenced by a foreign key and sets the foreign key references to NULL.
ON DELETE SET DEFAULT: This does the same as the previous, but allows us to set a default value instead of NULL.
ON DELETE CASCADE: This allows the deletion of IDs that are referenced by a foreign key and also proceeds to cascadingly delete the referencing foreign key rows. 
    For example, if we used this to delete an artist ID, all the artist’s affiliations with the artwork would also be deleted from the created table.

By default, as we discussed before, SQLite will select the largest ID present in the table and increment it to obtain the next ID. 
But we can use the AUTOINCREMENT keyword while creating a column to indicate that any deleted ID should be repurposed for a new row being inserted into the table.

The other option is to UPDATE existing data:
-- Change the artist ID for a specific painting
UPDATE "created"
SET "artist_id" = (
    SELECT "id"
    FROM "artists"
    WHERE "name" = 'Li Yin'
)
WHERE "collection_id" = (
    SELECT "id"
    FROM "collections"
    WHERE "title" = 'Farmers working at dawn'
);

Assessment 2 specifically has useful practice on data cleaning with SQL.